Translator: Gisela Giardino
Reviewer: Sebastian Betti
I'm passionate about insects
for two reasons.
For one, I'm mad about
the infinite diversity
of this kind of little beings.
30 million; not of insects but of species.
We say that humans invented the wheel.
But dung beetles would move
balls of dung way before
we would even think of
standing up straight.
"Humans invented compost."
Ants would make compost
long before any ecologist would
in their balcony.
And just in case you used to think
that we have invented air conditioning
you are absolutely wrong.
Of course, termites did it before.
And there are bugs
that serve as thermometers.
Here you are: the crickets.
The more they crick, the higher
the ambient temperature.
It obviously varies with the species,
but it's quite accurate.
And these are just some facts
about four insects.
Figure this multiplied by 30 million!
Incredible!
(Laughter)
Besides, insects are delicious.
And this is the second thing
I wanted to talk to you about.
(Applause)
When I was 11 years old,
I was eating a hamburger
at a fast food restaurant
when a kid approaches me and says:
"Do you know that hamburgers
are made of insects?"
Hold on for a second! Are insects edible?
I later found out that
the hamburgers thing was a myth
but at the time it kept me wondering
and I started searching.
And in effect, not only insects are edible
but they have a lot of advantages to them.
Compared specially with agriculture
and the livestock industry,
they create more food in less space
and using less natural resources.
A grass-fed cow needs, give or take
one hectare to move.
Whereas insects don't need more place
than what they already take.
Now, if you feed that cow 8 kg of food,
it will generate 1 kg of meat;
approximately an 8-to-1 ratio.
If I feed the 8 kg of food to insects
they will generate 4 kg: a 8-to-4 ratio.
Besides, insects in general have
more protein per 100 g than cows.
For instance, crickets have
22 percent more protein.
And if this was not enough,
the livestock industry is responsible
for the release of 37 percent methane
due to human activities
that contributes to the greenhouse effect.
And, guess what?
Insects create in between
10 and 100 time less methane
than, say, pork.
Great, well, but if insects are so cool
why don't we have them
in the market shelves?
Precisely, for the faces
I saw in most of you
when I ate a cricket.
We don't have it in mind here,
but in the world today, 2 billion people
eat insects on daily basis.
As Latinamericans we used to as well,
until not so long ago --
Our pre-Columbian diet was made
of an important variety of insects:
ant larvae, worms, crickets, etc.
Until the Spaniards came in and put
the same face you just put.
Probably, when you think about
eating an insect,
you will imagine yourselves
biting a cockroach like this
or cutting with your knife
a tarantula this big,
but you need not to worry.
A product that's becoming widespread
is insect flour.
It has all the benefits I mentioned before
plus, you don't even realize
you are eating crickets
in a slice of bread.
So, how can we get the most of
what insects can give to us?
In 2017, we went to Chile
with a group of friends.
We attended the first Latinamerican
Summit for Young Leaders in Biotech.
There we introduced and idea
I think it can work.
We suggested creating insects to produce
food with added value
in urban areas as a way to solve
the problem of the lack of space
and the cost of resources.
We did this thinking that if we youngsters
don't tear down cultural barriers,
nobody will do it.
In fact, we are already doing this
regarding genders.
And also in Latinamerica
the production of food
is a neural part of our economy
and we cannot stay behind
amidst these changes.
And to do this it's not required
a huge warehouse
or a big investment.
For instance, I try to contribute
in my own house
breeding insects,
studying how to cook them
and transform them
so they can be more edible.
And if they look at insects beyond
our preconceptions?
What if we see them as thermometers,
or as great inventors,
and also as food?
Nature provides with a solution that is
profitable, viable and sustainable.
And it's even delicious!
Let's grab this chance and try to change
the lens we look to insects with.
(Applause)